[Music]
when I talk about this podcast to people
I often have a hard time telling people
if it's a business podcast or if it's a
spirituality podcast or if it's a
relationships podcast because we sort of
cover all the bases but really one of
the things that I love about what we're
doing here is that it really just points
to how they all come from the same place
yeah
I'd love to have an episode that I could
just refer somebody to to be like this
is what I mean
check this out
oh wow I don't uh
okay how about how about if we do one
that is all about business as a
spiritual practice I'm not sure if we
can do something that like ties them all
together at least my brain can't
comprehend that at the moment but I
could definitely say like oh how
business and personal development can go
hand in hand and and what makes them go
hand in hand in hand so well yeah great
yeah let's stick with that seeming dual
axis then of like business and
spirituality because I think often that
feels like a dichotomy for people and in
this episode let's kind of weave those
together
yeah that sounds awesome
yeah yeah absolutely I think the way
that I would want to start that is to
just say
for those who are in business you know
some and who are as old as I am
somewhere in the 70s there was this
concept that there was either a business
you were either a business person or you
were an environmentalist
and you couldn't beat both
and then the beginning kind of like in
the 90s started showing up like hey we
can do both of these two things
and then you know even companies like
Walmart like by the early 2000s they
were
doing some amazing things for the
environment they were doing things like
um what was it was like telling Barbie
that they needed to shrink their boxes
so less containers would need to be
shipped across the ocean they were
saying we're only going to sell
um renewable uh sustainable fish they
stopped selling certain kinds of light
bulbs because they took too much energy
they did all this stuff and
and I remember talking to the CEO who
was in charge of that I believe his name
was Lee Scott and he said it was like
sweeping thousand dollar bills off the
floor
he said it was just so easy to make
money being a you know environmentally
conscious and so I I want to start off
by saying it's the same thing here that
I think that if you really get this
concept if you really get the concept
that
that business can be a self-discovery
journey
and that the more in a more ways you
find for your business to be in
alignment with who you are the more
successful you can be and it and when
you see it it is like sweeping thousand
dollar bills off the floor it can be
incredibly
profitable and deeply aligned so
I want to start off that way just to
kind of give that metaphor out there so
that when you listen to it you're
listening to it that way like oh this is
something that can really help you be
successful in business
yeah beautiful I imagine I imagine
listeners would love to be sweeping
thousand dollar bills off the floor do
they really exist I've never really seen
that I don't know I think they're in
circulation technically
okay maybe he's at home and do that in a
way that feels aligned yeah yeah 100
bills it actually kind of goes the other
way it is finding what's not in
alignment putting it into an alignment
which allows for the
for the for the money to come is
typically how it works or in my
experience is how it's worked
yeah okay so I heard you just use the
words alignment and we originally kind
of opened this speaking of spiritual
practice so I want to kind of
dial in a little bit on what you mean by
spiritual practice
yeah so
yeah that's a great question geez it
well first of all it's an incredibly
loaded term typically anything that you
say in this realm like you can say like
spiritual practice loaded term you can
say like closer to God and it'd be like
a loaded term you could say
self-awareness it's a loaded term so
just depending on what your background
is somehow or another these are all
loaded terms so yeah let me give it
three different ways to to describe it
the first one is
um there's just this human development
theory that says
as we mature assuming we don't get
stunted with trauma as we mature our
brain moves in certain ways we move from
um
seeing ourselves as very like individual
into seeing ourselves as part of say an
ecosystem or part of everything that we
see time in a very short period of time
like a little kid
who's like can't get excited about
birthday party that's a month away to an
adult who
is lucky if they can see four or five
years out so that they don't sign that
really crappy mortgage
um
and then maybe you start seeing time as
far as Generations or maybe you start to
see the uh
that Infinity is in the depth of a
moment it's not in a length of time
and so that development developmental
path
and and and spiritual traditions and
religious Traditions that would be
Spiritual Development
it would be how do we
um and the other way to say it is how do
we evolve through our nature how do we
become ourselves how do we
be authentic
how do we
the the path of development that is just
our natural path of development that
requires some attention but doesn't
really require a tremendous amount of
doing or rowing or that kind of stuff
like effort so that's that's what I'd
mean by Spiritual Development it sounds
like a fine-tuning of your experience
cleaning up the like both the efficiency
and the enjoyment and the alignment and
and the flow
in your experience and in your relation
to yourself into the world and
that that might be the thing that we're
talking about showing up in business
synergistically
yeah I don't those are some of those are
like more like symptoms
the way I would just say it is that
um
as we learn more about ourselves there
is a maturation that occurs as we
understand who we are more there is an
evolution that occurs and that evolution
is something that is
been tracked and described by
Tibetan Buddhism or Christianity in
certain sects of Christianity or modern
psychology does it in human development
and it's very it's a it's pretty clearly
it's pretty clearly laid out in these
different ways none of them do it exact
justice but yeah yeah
and the result is eventually more joy
the result eventually is
more alignment The Vault the result
eventually is more peace Etc
yeah
yeah okay so I kind of hear you
describing the spiritual as Evolution
and the practice as the awareness
and the the practice the spiritual
practice is like bringing the awareness
to your evolution
yeah yeah that's that's beautifully said
better than I clearly clearly better
than I just said it yeah that's it yeah
okay then uh let's move on to what do
you mean by by business because this can
also be
yeah this can be a trigger word it also
can be very broadly applied it could
also be yeah
the business I mean it in that very
broadly applied there I mean the the
getting crap done in life you know it
doesn't mean running a company it might
be being in a job
um you know the Tibetans called it
skillful means or the translation is
skillful means and so they would talk
about the spiritual practice of like
chopping wood
um
so it I don't care if it's marketing
something or if it's
starting a business or if it's being an
artist it's like all that is what I mean
by business it's what I mean is just
like when you're getting crap done in
the world when you're creating stuff or
making stuff or
or producing stuff
yeah okay so the merging of these two is
sort of
bringing awareness to our evolution in
an applied way applied to the crap we're
getting done
yes applied to
how we are showing up and where that
actually impacts the world around yes
and
the experience we have while doing it
yeah that's right that's right beautiful
yeah okay so what's the if we were to
kind of lay out a basic formula for a
business as a spiritual practice what
would that look like
yeah so the basic formula is
um
the same as everything that we talk
about here actually like anything that
we've said on this podcast can be
applied here but um but specifically
it's about embracing intensity it's
about going into the difficulty that
presents itself rather than running away
from the difficulty that presents itself
it is about
um get learning to be more and more in
connection with ourselves and others
and it's about Discerning internal
alignment and moving towards the
alignment instead of away from the
alignment for the
short-term gain or for the or for the
fear no
so that's generally what it is that's
the formula and that works particularly
well in business
so just like as an example
you're running a company
to not ignore the thing that is
um
the the thing that's difficult going and
spending time in the thing that's
difficult creating connection with your
customer creating connection with
yourself creating the connection with
your managers
the people who work for you
um
is going to make the business more
efficient and
really noticing everything that feels
out of alignment and putting it into
alignment just will increase that
efficiency of the business similarly
same way internally is like oh the
emotions that I run away from
can I embrace those in that intensity
that's going to do a tremendous amount
uh can I learn to be more connected with
myself or others is going to teach me a
tremendous amount about myself
as is the embracing intensity as is the
internal alignment oh that didn't feel
right I need to address it oh that
didn't feel right I need to speak it
all those same things happen whether
you're working in a business or whether
you're working just with yourself they
apply in meditation for instance
you're sitting in meditation
you have a difficult experience can you
embrace the experience
can you connect with the experience can
you connect more deeply with yourself in
that with no effort as it turns out and
then and can you
can you notice the places that aren't in
alignment and can you allow them to to
become in alignment
same thing
so we've got these kind of three prongs
of this formula embracing intensity
connection internal alignment what are
what are some examples some other
examples of what that could be applied
to or where in your life you might look
to see symptoms that could be breadcrumb
traced back to where where this could be
applied where this formula could be
applied
now
so let's say for instance
um
you and or your company is having a hard
time making decisions
there's a lot of second guessing going
on a decision is made and then 10 people
tell you you know wait let's re-question
that decision or you internally in your
own head are constantly
uh second guessing all the decisions
that you've made or taking a tremendous
amount of time making a decision because
you're constantly second guessing it
before you make it
um
that means that there is an emotional
experience you're avoiding so you can
really use embracing intensity in that
moment
you can ask in a business context what
are the really hard questions what are
we trying to avoid what are we really
trying to get to
what's got us scared how are we not
being courageous
um connecting
and is really internally connecting with
what you're scared of connecting with
your fear learning how
to love and embrace that will totally
change your decision making
same thing with that company like how do
you whatever the decision is on how do
you connect with the people that it
affects how do you connect with the
customers it affects how do you
get their input or recognize that
connection and how to how to nurture it
and similarly with internal alignment
second guessing usually means that
there's not an internal alignment to
find out what that internal alignment is
or isn't and doing the work there
similarly
if there's a lot of second guessing
inside of a company usually the
alignment looks like I want I think this
is what we should do but I don't want to
get in trouble it's like typically and
there's often been a lot of second
guessing and there's a whole bunch of
leadership guessing exactly
so that's an example the other examples
would be like conflict avoidance that we
just talked about or obliteration of ego
all of those things like
being defensive in business is horrible
for business because you're not
listening to great ideas you're not
being open to other people's wisdom
you're making it so other people don't
share their wisdom with you it's you're
making it so customers don't share with
you you stop asking customers all of
that is defensiveness
that is a protection of ego
if you allow your business to constantly
shatter your ego by being non-defensive
and and feeling all the things and
letting yourself be wrong
and letting yourself be right when you
are even when people disagree all of
that work is a disintegration of ego so
that's another example is just it's all
it's every single thing that I see stops
a client
in their business or slows the client
down in their business also slows them
down in their
um
in their relationships and in their
self-development and so there's this
really great way to use business as a
tool to see yourself more clearly
yeah yeah and widening widening that uh
definition of business to
to something like a family you've I've
heard you describe that you know the
role of a kid the role of a child is to
obliterate the ego of the parents and
one of the one of the roles uh and so in
the business of raising a family not to
say
money making business but the in the in
the sense of like the that you're
doing yes then the obliteration of your
ego is the thing that will unravel that
second guessing it'll unravel that
conflict avoidance allow you to receive
more information and see it more clearly
with less bias
yeah yeah and that's the thing just to
be clear about that part so let's say
the second guessing in the ego
obliteration
um a lot of people think ego means
I'm super sure and so I'm the greatest
and I know what decisions to make and
Eco is really any way that you define
yourself
and so if you define yourself as unclear
and scared and and that gets annihilated
then the second guessing is gonna stop
and
and you're going to be more free there's
going to be less ego and and you're
going to be more capable of getting
things done yeah
um yeah
um
so what are the benefits of of this
practice of this form of path compared
to say other other practices and what
would you just describe as other
practices that might be different than
this yeah I mean there's hundreds of
practices
um you know whatever somatic practices
or meditation or therapy or any of that
stuff they're all practices towards the
same thing
so I would say one of the some of the
benefits of
of using business as a Avenue for
spiritual growth is that you don't get
to fool yourself very easily in it like
you can fool yourself into a somatic
experience you can fool yourself into a
state of meditation and then you know a
little kid comes up and bothers you and
you're like get out of my way kid and
then uh business it's like you you it's
the Rubber hits the road every day every
day
your your you know things are going to
go wrong how are you gonna how are you
gonna let your ego dissolve in the face
of things going wrong every day is going
to have some level of discomfort in it
and so there's something real about it
you can't fool yourself as easily
um that's one of them uh another one is
that uh
oftentimes there's this thing that
happens in spiritual practices where
someone's like if I could only just
meditate all the time then I could you
know be happy like especially people who
are on the search they have that thing
and one other thing business uh it just
doesn't allow that sense of false
separation
uh you don't say more on that
you don't get to yeah so if you're like
I'm gonna completely separate and hang
out in a cave then your business is
going to fail so and and so there's you
don't get to have that
um that fantasy and be consistent with
your practice whereas you can meditate
two hours a day and think to yourself oh
if I could only just give up this life
give up my wife give up everything and
hang out in the cave then I could be
happy that like that sense of false
separation is just doesn't get to be
there so that fantasy doesn't get to
live there it's it's very real every day
yeah though it does seem like there are
cases where a business especially one
with a large moat and a lot of momentum
and like a lot of market share can
survive for a long time
without that but eventually the rubber
hits the road same thing for years of
countries
uh a couple notable ones in our world
right now where some right rubber is
hitting the road in a major way and they
also might not be seeing it at all
right right you can absolutely get away
with being horrible at business for a
decade if you have like a really well
established product or whatever
um however if you're using business as a
spiritual practice if you're if that is
your consciousness
there like you are going to get signal
constantly that what you think is
working isn't working and you're going
to get signal constantly that there is
no separation between the two you're
gonna see how you treat yourself affects
your company you're going to see how you
treat other effects your company you're
going to see how you can let go of
control affects your company same if
you're an artist if you're really using
it as a spiritual practice you're going
to see how your relationship to yourself
changes your art
you're gonna get to see and and you're
going to get to see what happens to your
art when you're in constriction with
yourself and you're going to get to see
what happens with your art when you're
in flow with yourself and so it's it's
just constantly there you don't get to
pretend that they're separate
um so what
yeah what are the benefits
yeah um there's a little less Naval
gazing there's a I've noticed that
there's like these backwaters and
traditional spiritual practice where
you can like kind of agree with the
words and the terminology of a practice
and you can get lost in the scripture if
you will and instead of actually the
felt sense of what's happening for you
and
and that can allow a lot of Naval gazing
it can be a lot of like a kind of a
really beautiful form of narcissism of
constantly thinking about yourself in
the process but in business if you
constantly think about yourself you're
gonna fail
um
so so there's something really beautiful
about that the business keeps it really
real and therefore there's like less
time to
be solipsistic and and if you are you're
going to see the effect very quickly if
that's how if that's how you're looking
at your business and and this is exactly
why it's like sleeping sweeping hundred
dollar thousand dollar bills off the
floor is because if you're looking at
your businesses as a spiritual practice
you're going to notice all this stuff
really quickly you're going to do
something about it really quickly
if you are not if you're doing it for
power if you're doing it to win if
you're doing it to make a name for
yourself all this stuff
all the stuff that all the places you
don't Embrace intensity it's a lot
easier to fool yourself it's a lot
easier to say oh well the business is
going good so everything's good
when you look at the folks that are
constantly wrestling with their business
and
and opening it up and you read what
they're talking about oftentimes they're
they're seeing their business as a
practice when you really look closely
and so it really allows you to continue
sharpening your sword
so to speak rather than to Let It Go
dull because you've made it
yeah
a great a great example of this is they
did this study with a whole bunch of tax
records I think it was European study I
think it was a Dutch person and and they
basically looked at what tax events
affected businesses and death of
children really affected the market cap
of businesses and divorces and
mother-in-law's deaths even yeah all
these things affected businesses but one
of the things that affected businesses
dramatically like I think it was a 10
reduction in market cap is if the CEO
built a house that was over five
thousand six thousand square feet
something like that
and it's the idea of like yeah I know
right and it's like oh I've made it or
my Attunement is towards something else
and because the business wasn't
the thing the business was a means to an
end
and so my focus can be pulled away from
it whereas if business is a spiritual
practice
it is the it is the ends it is the means
and the ends and so that's what allows
you to like fully be engaged in a way
that doesn't burn you out and engaged in
a way that you don't want to
you know run away from it I remember I
was recently at a um a group of people
doing online courses and a lot of the
people's you know fantasy was oh I could
work five hours a week and then the rest
of my time I can do what I want
and I was like how is this not doing
what you want right like like there's no
means to an end here for me this is very
much about it's the practice and it
keeps me engaged yeah right yeah I love
the the pointer to
when people have succeeded in business
when it was a means to an end and gotten
what they wanted
than the yeah business suffers and Falls
away and
the practice here is
to like is exploring what was that
initial motivation what was the power I
was seeking what was the money I was
seeking what's the safety or the love or
the validation or the acceptance I was
seeking
and it would be really bad business not
to look at what's the most direct path
to that
yeah yeah that's right the path the
spiritual practice
that we're talking about
yeah yeah there's this beautiful thing
that happens which is like
if your business is a spiritual practice
then you it's a lot harder to do things
like burnout it's a lot harder to do
things like not pay attention to
yourself it's a lot harder to do things
like having cross motivation or to
suffer
you know an employee that doesn't feel
great and to all of those things create
just better businesses
hmm which then I imagine the objection
that might come up is well I can't do
everything as a spiritual path can I
like do I want to have a
a
business that makes bombs as a spiritual
path like what is what is it right how's
that look or a business that just does
not feel at all like it's
doing something for me
personally as just the way that I need
to operate to make money for my family
or that's the story
yeah to me there's two questions there
the first one is what would I say to
folks who are like
I can't
do this and build a business and the
first answer I'd be like would if you
don't want you don't goodness gracious
like like if you don't want to have a
spiritual practice don't don't do it
because of some sense of should or have
to or because it makes your business
better like that that won't work don't
do it
second thing I would say is that you
know I have I work with a lot of
a lot of you know CEOs who have created
billion dollar multi-billion dollar
companies and they have like thousands
of people working with them and they
started those companies and they're like
I can't do that I'm like how is it that
you got to like I can build a
multi-billion dollar company in eight
years and then the idea that it could be
a spiritual path that's just like no
that's not possible like what the hell
is like how does your mind pull that one
off and they do usually what you do they
check on they see all right yeah it was
just this limiting perspective
so
um so so those are the two things I
would say there as far as like what are
the like what are the downsides of this
path
I think the biggest one is it can be
really
um it's like it's a it's like like level
up mode right it's uh uh there's there's
a word that my daughters use for this
but it's like like hard mode and um
[Music]
and or extreme mode or whatever it is
but there's there's a lot of
distractions there's a lot of reasons
not to focus on your spiritual practice
and business right you get the 10 phone
calls in a day about a customer being
upset and this being done and that other
thing and this emergency it's like it's
it's like
oh how am I disconnected with myself
right now is a is a advanced move
um so that's one of the things so I I
often see that business is a
as a as a spiritual practice or as a
developmental tool is really well served
by having some time for me it's usually
you know
just time completely away from the
business where I can focus on my own
journey and my own internal state
which is the second one
um the second one is that um it is
um
[Music]
is that
like there needs to be a certain amount
of time to be able to focus on your
internal State you know like if I just
sit with myself for 20 minutes it's a
different thing than if I sit with
myself for three days or five days or
ten days
and there's discoveries that happen with
a length of time and so oftentimes
business seems to tell you that you
can't have the time to do the work
um but there's a necessity for time to
do some of this work
um and there's so that's also a really
important thing being able it takes away
the time and attention that some of the
really most valuable practices are are
needed for
so that's the downside yeah yeah and I
think perhaps an underlying fear that
makes all of those the case the way that
it feels like it's hard mode and it's
really intense and that there's always
distractions you could go into
and why there might always reasons not
to take the time is because ultimately
on this path
your life as you know it
may and or will
completely fall apart and you'll find
something else that is
more in alignment and sometimes it can
be a really circuitous path sometimes it
can be more direct
yeah but ultimately some brings you into
falling flat on your face faster making
more mistakes sooner feeling the
uncomfortable feelings at a faster clip
than you might have
then you might have uh previously
thought you wanted to
yeah I think the thing about that is
that can all happen and it can look like
your radical success while it's
occurring meaning that like it's not so
much that your world will fall apart
it's your idea of the world will fall
apart or your yeah who you think you are
in the world that will fall apart so
sometimes your construction of the world
yeah exactly so sometimes everything
looks exactly the same but everything is
entirely different and sometimes
actually you pivot off of one business
to a whole different business and the
whole way that you do business has
changed and and you end up making less
money but you're 10 times as happy and
then that happiness is contagious which
and allows you to make 20 times as much
money it's just it is a circuitous path
for sure but but what it is is it
creates deeper alignment more joy more
happiness more flow
yeah it just doesn't look the way your
mind might want it to look
yeah so with that I want to ask
what are the tools from the podcast and
from this work that folks can use to get
on or deepen into this to deepen into
business as a spiritual path
every single one of them every tool
every podcast has an application to how
you would use it for business whether
it's obvious or not
um Let me give a couple of examples just
as a way to
to think about it the one of them is
like is gratitude is a big part and so I
think we talk about this somewhere along
the line but you know we used to start
all of our business meetings with
gratitude
and because it allowed us to solve
problems not just from a what's wrong
how do we fix a point of view but from
what's right and how do we grow it point
of view which created a lot more
solution
sets than we had when we were not doing
gratitude as an example also gratitude
creates more connection more feeling of
Team cohesion
all of those things have a use because
if you notice almost all of our work has
to do some part with ourselves in part
some part relationally and all
businesses is is people's ideas and
people's relationships that's what
business is at the end of the day
there's some capital
um but that came from people's ideas and
people's relationships maybe you could
also say people's decision making so
anything that affects that is going to
affect your business uh so that's one
example
um another example is uh this recently
it comes to mind is
Empower over power
um I was talking to a whole bunch of
leaders and
and I was sending getting them through
this visualization to sit into their
meetings that they're normally sitting
in and I was naming the reality in the
meeting that they might not want to pay
attention to things like people were
more concerned with them that people
wanted to please that the people were
rebelling against them that
um people wanted to make sure that they
were happy that people were passive
aggressive to them but not to other
teammates like I was giving them the
whole reality of what it is to be a
leader that there that more
conversations happen about you than any
other person on the team you know like
what does that feel like and
I was asking them to visualize it and to
feel it and really allow that in to
their system
so that they could move away from power
and into empowerment and
um
there is one person in the in the group
had this radical realization she was
like oh I was doing all this stuff to
make people happy and now I actually see
that they need me to tell them what
makes me happy
for it to work and her whole business
changed it was crazy how quickly her
business changed like
like it literally went like you know she
got rid of two people and then changed
the way that she was leading and told an
investor that they needed to like
you know settle down a little bit and
and and
started being more directive but still
listening to everybody's feedback and
just changed everything really quickly
and that's just one example of like
moving from empowerment to power and how
it can affect your business so
yeah every one of the tools has a has
some relationship to
to how you can run your business
yeah well we'll link to the episodes you
just mentioned in the show notes on
gratitude love over defense and Empower
over power
yeah and so so given of course that we
call this work the art of accomplishment
how how does the art piece of that
relate to this
yeah so
luckily I used art as an expression at
the beginning which is you know even if
you're doing art that's doing something
but I would like to think about it the
other way which is
for me business is very much an art form
meaning that
like just as like a painter paints they
need pigment a businessman creates a
business and they need Revenue like
that's generally the thing that they
need to make there
art form and and the only other art form
that's kind of like it is like a
symphony and the fact that every
conductor is going to do it differently
over time your business is going to
change and move and it's going to have a
life of its own unlike something like in
the plastic Arts where it's just
solidified and that's it which makes it
a really cool art form and you can have
a business that
puts light in the world or you can have
that creates darkness in the world you
can create have a business that cuts
trees down or plants trees so that
business can be this really amazing
expression of you it whether you like it
or not it is an art form it is a
creation that is being made and that
creation that is being made is affecting
people who interact with it and and
that's the same thing art is
and so for me
um the art form that I want to do is the
art form of self discovery of of
self-realization I want the I want to
create a piece of art that allows people
who interact with it to see themselves
more clearly and to
see how joyful their existence is if
they allow it to be
and so but your art form might be
different and it might not again it
might not be about self-discovery or
spirituality or any of that stuff it
might be you know about winning and
that's great like if that's what your
art form is I say I go for it and when
you're 40 years old and miserable as
hell
you know it might be that that was a
strategy all along for self-discovery
and eventually exactly as a parent right
right or maybe it is fully in alignment
and you're happy as as I'll get out so
whatever it is it's it's great I I just
follow that I trust that a lot more than
you know some prescription that I would
give
yeah ultimately following
following what comes to you is going to
be a much faster path than domming
yourself into being a different way
because that's supposed to be what you
are
yeah exactly yeah
awesome awesome
thank you Joe what a pleasure pleasure
to be with you as always yeah thank you
everybody all right oh hey and um these
days we're on Twitter uh and not just
art of a comp but Fu Joe and I think
we're on LinkedIn now or we will be on
LinkedIn soon so yeah check out the show
notes for all those links uh we're on
Twitter at Art of a comp
and Joe is at at Fu underscore Joe
Hudson and I am at air Kistler air
k-i-s-t-l-e-r and you can find us at Art
of accomplishment.com to check out our
courses and our community and send us
questions
and check out how you can deepen into
this work and get more involved
all right cool thanks everybody all
right thank you
foreign